I think that is so important to be able
to say like this is my dream and not be
ashamed by it because whatever your
dream is that's your dream don't let
someone take that away from you if you
have this burning desire inside of you
then you just need to go full force and
kind of block out all the negativity and
everything else that is around you
telling you that you can't do it
everybody welcome to impact Theory
you're here my friends because you
believe that human potential is nearly
limitless but you know that having
potential is not the same as actually
doing something with it so our goal with
this showing company is to introduce you
to the people and ideas that will help
you actually execute on your dreams all
right today's guest is one of the most
decorated competitors the sport of
gymnastics has ever seen born the
daughter of two Soviet world champion
gymnast she began training young but not
because her parents forced her to but
because she absolutely loved it she
pushed herself constantly committed to
seeing just how far she could take her
career and her hunger and dedication
paid off big-time by the time she
retired in her early 20s she had become
a four-time all around us national
champion with nine World Championship
medals tied for the third highest tally
of World Championship medals by any US
gymnast in history additionally she
captured the world's imagination at the
2008 Beijing Olympics by becoming a
five-time Olympic medalist and one of
only three Americans ever to win the
all-around gold medal in gymnastics
incredibly however what makes her one of
the most enduring names in elite
gymnastics isn't just her victories it's
how she handled herself in defeat in an
attempt to make the 2012 Olympic team
and defend her all-around gold medal in
front of 20,000 adoring fans and
millions more watching on TV she failed
the maneuver on the uneven bars and fell
flat on her face literally but she
didn't sulk or lay there and cry she got
up brushed herself off and finished the
routine even though she knew her Olympic
dreams were now over the Grace and depth
of character that she demonstrated
earned her the first standing ovation of
her career and cemented her legacy
refusing to let her pass be bigger than
her future since retiring
she has earned her degree in sports
management started her own clothing line
and along with her fiance set her sights
on helping the next generation of
athletes so please help me in welcoming
the woman who tied the record for most
medals by a US gymnasts in a single
Olympic Games one of those rare athletes
who so embody the qualities of a
champion that they've graced the front
of a Wheaties box
Nastia Liukin thank you like set it all
well my goal with that always is to one
let people know that like I know the
story I know it well and and then go
somewhere that you haven't gone right
you've already put out so much amazing
content your books incredible the
interviews you've done ever incredible
and now like how do we take that a layer
deeper to give people something that
they can really go with and the place
that I want to start is actually the
dedication to your book which I
shouldn't have been surprised by but for
some reason I was and I'll paraphrase it
was to all the girls out there who have
big dreams think bigger work harder and
I thought whoa why why think bigger why
work harder you know I think for me
there were so many times in my life that
I was told no I was told I wasn't good
enough I wasn't strong enough I wasn't
fast enough I was too skinny so many
things where people just didn't believe
in me and I think you know I owe a lot
to my parents which I'm sure we'll get
into but I just feel like they truly
taught me to believe in my dreams and I
had this huge dream of you know winning
that all-around gold medal at the
Olympics and not many people believed in
me but when I was able to kind of set
that dream in that goal and I knew it
was like this huge goal that you know
for so many years for an American
gymnast it was unattainable and
unachievable so Mary Lou Retton won in
1984 and then one of my closest friends
and teammates Carly Patterson won in
2004 so it had been 20 years before an
American gymnast won
and so being able to train in the same
gym as Carly the gym that my parents
started was was really something that
inspired me every single day because she
kind of made me believe that this is
possible you know it is possible for an
American gymnast to do that
and so I think just being able to see
that every single day inspired me that
being said I just feel like so many
times there's people around you whether
they're in your life or now social media
you know people are always going to tell
you know and people are always going to
like roll your eyes when you tell them
your dream or your goal and I think what
I realized throughout my career and
continued to realize is that those
dreams and those goals are within reach
and they're you know just at the tip of
our fingertips and if we really want to
do it it's it's far beyond obviously
then just like work hard and believe in
yourself you know you have to do a few
more things in between all of that but I
just think with young girls today that
it's important for them to have a voice
and to believe in that voice what I
loved about the quote was you didn't say
keep dreaming you said think bigger and
then work harder and so I'm glad you
brought up your parents one thing that I
love is originally your mom started as
your coach yeah I mean your dad was
watching her let you off like she said
you retired or hurt or whatever so one
walk us through what what was that
moment for your dad seeing that like was
he just projecting outgoing you have to
go harder to win and then are you glad
that he stepped in yes I'm 100% glad
that he stepped in I think it was
important for me to have at least one
parent that was just a parent and you
know my dad and I are so similar in the
sense of we're perfectionist and
everything that we want to do we want to
do a hundred percent and so that's great
but it also means that sometimes we butt
heads and so that frustration whether
it's an injury or an obstacle that we
have to overcome together as a team
because that's how we always felt we
were kind of like this triangle and
called ourselves team Luca and it was
you know me as the athlete my dad was
the
coach and then my mom really held us all
together she was the rock in our family
and in our team and she was there in the
gym every single day you know not
coaching but managing the gym but also
you know keeping like her you know one
way I guess watching us and kind of
trying to figure out what she could do
better to support us and to motivate us
every single day especially through the
hard times but she started coaching me
just because they really didn't think
that I would love it as much as I did
and for him I think he thought the same
thing you know he well first when I was
about to be born I was supposed to be a
boy
and my dad was like awesome we're gonna
have a soccer player you know he's not
gonna do gymnastics and ended up being a
girl and then they just wanted me as
their only child and only daughter to be
happy it's cool I love that and and you
hear that in the way that you talk about
the relationship that yeah for sure it
was hard and I'm sure there were a lot
of days there you'd rather be doing
anything else but it seems like there
was never a loss of love between you
guys and and that seems pretty special
especially given how far you go now I
think a lot of people want to be great
but not a lot of people say I want to be
the best what does it take to really be
the best like what did you have to do
internally in your mind to push yourself
that extra distance well I think
specifically the year before they owned
fix it was I had just had surgery on my
ankle and it was my first major injury
kind of through those years and our
national championships so I had won four
in a row I had won two as a junior two
as a senior so for back to back to back
to back and then here I was the year
before the Olympics and it was the worst
year of my entire career and I just
wasn't both mentally or physically
prepared but I knew that I had to
compete in order to try to make the
world team in order to try to then make
the Olympic team and so we have four
events we compete two days in a row so
that means eight events eight routines
and out of those eight routines I fell
six times
and so here I am the year before the
Olympics you're supposed to like be your
best you know or gearing up to be your
best and I was my absolute worst
so I guess looking back at it I can see
why so many people started doubting me
but at the same time I was you know
pretty young and didn't quite understand
why all these people had supported me
for all these years and then all of a
sudden with one bad competition they
were like oh she's too old at 17 18
years old she's too injured she's just
not gonna be ready for the Olympics let
alone you know when the alarm on gold
medal but maybe not even make that
Olympic team and so I think that was
really the first time in my life where I
realized how difficult it was to not
only be somewhat in the spotlight but
then have people not believe in you and
so I kind of started relying on the
people in my life that I knew believed
in me and that we're on the journey with
me what do you do like internally when
people are saying you're not gonna make
it which I'm sure is a knock to the
Commons how do you build yourself back
up so what my dad told me was as soon as
that year ended he said it's 2008 no
matter what happens at the end of August
2008 when the Olympic Games are over
let's make a patch that we know we did
absolutely everything possible we don't
want to look back and have a single
regret so that meant literally from
waking up an hour earlier to now going
to run three miles before every
seven-hour training session
it was now not doing an hour of
conditioning but two hours of
conditioning going to physical therapy
not once a week but maybe twice or three
times a week I was doing acupuncture
twice a week I was doing with massage
therapy I was doing literally everything
possible everything that I had you know
on my hands that I could to become the
strongest that I possibly could I knew
that I was never going to be as strong
as some of my teammates and not that
it's okay to accept that you know you're
not gonna be better than someone but I
think it's okay to accept that look I'm
gonna try my hardest to become my
personal best and when I started
realizing that I just needed to do my
best and kind of start
competing against others and trying to
be better than them all of a sudden I
felt like I had this weight that was
lifted off of my shoulders because I
stopped worrying about everybody else
and focused all my attention on becoming
the best that I could yeah that's really
interesting now in that I'm gonna guess
you're not letting go of the notion of
winning and winning everything was there
a conscious awareness of like I'm gonna
become the best version of myself
because I have a unique skill set that's
different there's going to be a flair to
my ability like if I can really be
myself but at like the absolute highest
elite level that I could really make
people pay attention yeah I knew that I
had a chance to be the best in the world
and I just wasn't able to put a clean
competition together I was struggling
with the injury I was struggling with
getting back to full strength and you
know not just strength but get my
routines back and then trying to upgrade
my routines so I could have these
difficult routines that I could be
competitive with the rest of the world
so it was like this like chain of you
know events basically that I was trying
to get stronger in all aspects of that
and so I think it was just this turning
point in when it hit 2008 where I was
kind of like you know what like okay
this is it's it's either it's it's all
or nothing at this point because I just
trained for almost 18 years in my life
for this one moment so it's like why
hold back now you know I didn't want to
look back and have regrets because that
to me was my biggest fear my fear wasn't
that I wasn't going to come out on top
or have or not make the Olympics or not
have a successful year it was my fear
was that I was going to have a regret
and so I didn't want to do that that's
awesome I love that how did you get
yourself to want it that bad like most
people in their lives like their entire
lives they're never going to want
anything that badly it's so funny
because I agree with you because it's
like I don't know I I read this book the
secret not sure if you've read it yes
and might remember my mom telling me
that I should read this book and you
know like when your mom tells you to
read something you're just like okay mom
especially when you're a teenager like
now it's a little different but when I
was a teenager and I was still in high
school and so I was like I have plenty
to read I have plenty of homework to do
and one day after training I remember
watching Oprah and she did this her
whole show was about the secret this
book and so I was like okay well if
Oprah said to read the book then maybe I
didn't forget my mom was got it I I hate
the book from my mom from for awhile
because I didn't want her to see it but
I literally drove to the book store it
got it like hid it under my pillow and
like finished it in like a day and a
half and and so I made a vision board
and the Beijing Olympic Committee had
just released the gold silver and bronze
medals what they would look like like
photos of him and so I printed those out
and put them on my vision board and you
know other like you know silly things
like I'd always wanted to go to Paris so
I printed out the Eiffel Tower like
things that I wanted to attract into my
life I guess and so my mom actually saw
my vision board it was in my room and
this was I want to say a few months
before the Olympics and to be honest I
had never really I'd probably had seen
my dad's four Olympic medals at some
point in my life but they were in a box
in the Attic and for me that was crucial
in not feeling like I had to live up to
something or the expectations and so I
knew that he had them but it wasn't they
weren't in my face every day it wasn't
something that I was like oh my god what
my dad did it now I have to do it was
something that I wanted to achieve but
then seeing the vision board she dug up
one of his Olympic gold medals and hung
it on my vision board next to the photos
of the Olympic gold medal from Beijing
and so seeing those two things together
it something clicked in my head where I
was kind of like okay this is what I
want and like here's the real thing yes
it's not mine but like I don't know what
it was it was just this moment that I
had where I was kind of like okay like I
I can do this it's within reach it's
right here
obviously hardwork is not enough you
have to train every single day super
hard every you know no matter what but
it was it was this moment of believing
believing in myself and believing that
if you want something bad enough and
it's not just about an Olympic gold
medal but anything in life you're
capable of achieving it I love that hard
work isn't enough ultimately it's about
believing yeah I said I really buy into
that now the secret I have a conflicting
relationship a lot of people do so half
of it I think is amazing yeah and coming
from you it's easy right because you
worked so hard you didn't just sit there
and print out you know the gold medal in
and just like sit on my bed and like
wait what happened yeah so that that's
me like you've got the perfect
relationship with the secret which is
okay you're gonna get what you focus on
right so I need to get to that point
where I can believe and hearing your
story is really fascinating and there's
you're giving me nuance that I didn't
find in the research but like the fact
that there was somebody who'd won the
all-around that was there in your gym
with you like that's incredible talk
about making it tangible right
seeing that work ethic the fascinating
part and all of this for me is your dad
didn't display his medals and you don't
either why not
to me it's something that I will forever
be proud of but it doesn't define who I
am as a person and I think I don't know
I think I was obviously very lucky to
have my parents raised me the way that I
was raised and it they were never in
front of my face they were if you walked
into our house you would never know who
lived there my medals and his medals
there in like a little bag in a safe in
in their house and so what I've realized
is I don't want to be defined by or
remembered by being that gymnast or
being that Olympic gold medalist
and don't get me wrong that's an amazing
accomplishment that I'll forever be
proud of but I just feel like there's so
much more to life than an Olympic gold
medal do you ever think like quietly of
course when no invoice like I'm a super
badass like not even necessarily for the
accomplishment but like think for a
second how hard you have to work to do
it and I ask in the context of right now
there is a young girl watching this and
she is going to need what I'll call
mental defenses to get her through
something I don't know what that
something is gonna be have you ever
heard of the marshmallow test no so
fascinating there's a book about it so
this guy Stanford professor researcher
excuse me it's like what leads to people
being successful and so he has this
theory that what it is is people that
can delay gratification people that can
do the hard things and so he brings
these kids into his lab and a guy in the
lab coat walks up and says hey I'm gonna
give you a marshmallow something that
the kids would love I'm gonna step out
for a second if you don't eat the
marshmallow until I come back I'll give
you a second marshmallow so essentially
double your money now what the kid
doesn't know is the guy's never coming
back
he literally just wants to see how long
you can wait to not need it now some
kids gobbled the thing before the guy
gets through the door yeah other kids
like after couple minister like nibbling
the underside and trying to hide it and
then other kids do things like they sing
to themselves they get up they walk
around they come up with these mental
tools ways to prolong it so that they
can try and double the money then they
follow these kids for 25 years and the
kids that delayed the longest did the
best they scored the best on tests they
did the best in school they had the
highest paying jobs they went to the
best colleges it was crazy how
correlated to their ability to defer
gratification it was so they obviously
had these amazing strategies so walk
this young girl or any of us through
it's one of those days you don't want to
do it right you just exhausted had
plenty of those so what did what did it
look like on those days what are you
doing mentally what were your strategies
well waking up on those days and I and I
tell kids this in
not just kids but parents because when I
talk to kids sometimes there's parents
in the room and I'm like freeze your
hand if you've ever had one of those
days where you don't want to get out of
bed and all the kids raise their hand
and like none of the parents aren't like
okay mom and dad I know you've had those
days too and they're all kind of like
but it's true I mean regardless of if
you're training seven hours a day six
days a week or you know you work at an
insurance company or a clothing store
whatever it is that your job is or just
in life you know in in a marriage in a
relationship we're all going to have
those days where we wake up and we just
like want to say I quit I don't want to
do this anymore it's too hard it's
easier to just throw my hands up in the
air and walk away and then what I would
tell myself is okay like that's that's
the easy way out but you know tomorrow
or the next day when you're feeling a
little bit better you're gonna regret
that and so growing up my mom had this
rule and this has just stuck with me for
the rest of my life regardless of you
know doing sports or business or just in
life and she I would come home from the
gym sometimes and a lot of times in
tears telling her this is just too hard
I don't want to do this anymore
I hate gymnastics you know I I'm in pain
I I just I really just don't want to do
this and she would say okay that's
that's totally fine like you don't have
to do gymnastics anymore and you know
what it was really interesting because
she was just like okay well you can quit
but not today you have to go back to the
gym the next day and the next day and
the next day until you have one good day
and of course I rolled my eyes and I
would say but I don't want to go back to
the gym more and she was like look I'm
never going to force you or push you
into gymnastics except for today and you
can quit after you have a good day so
you know in some days this would be
three days five days later and some days
it would be the next day when I would
have a good day and because moms always
know and we have a good day without even
saying anything I would come home and
she would say okay great now that you've
had a good day
you can quit will enroll you back into
public school find another activity that
you want to do and you know I would look
at her and say I don't know what you're
talking
I never said I wanted to quit so the
moral of that story for me was that
we're all going to have these days where
it just feels like it's too hard we
don't want to do it anymore and you want
to quit and that's okay
but you can't quit or give up on those
days and and I tell these young girls
that you know it's okay if if your
passion changes because we're not all
meant to have or love the same things
right we're not all going to fall in
love with gymnastics and love it forever
I have this passion for it but you can't
change your mind or quit on those days
you can change your mind and try
something else
if you if you're having a good day and
you just in your mind you think you know
what this might not be for me let me try
something else
so speaking of passions how I'm assuming
people come up to you and ask like oh
you're so lucky you found what you loved
so early but you have like almost a
weird reverse problem which is you
retire at what 22 is crazy
so yes you find a passion early but now
you have the rest of hopefully a very
long life how did you go about either
building or finding a new passion into
your life that was probably the scariest
and most difficult transitions of my
life because I truly did feel like
gymnastics defined who I was for so many
years for for 22 years of my life and
not just my life but my family you know
and and I'm so proud of what they've
been able to do with you know moving
over to the United States not speaking
any English not having much more than a
penny and this child me and a few
suitcases in a dream and their dream was
to always open up a gymnastic school and
coach their own athletes becoming world
in Olympic champions never imagined to
be their own daughter but you know so
for me seeing how successful that they
have become is it just makes me so proud
but it also has made it difficult to
figure out who I was as a person without
gymnastics in my life and so I moved to
New York City and I started going to
school at NYU and I really feel like
that was the perfect place to kind of
figure out who I was because I had lived
in Texas my whole life basically with my
parents right
and also having a coach every single day
of my life where all the sudden now
nobody was telling me what to do I could
go to sleep when I wanted and wake up
when I wanted I could eat whatever I
wanted I could you know go out if I
wanted and so obviously that was kind of
like this freeing feeling but at the
same time it was really scary because I
didn't know if I was doing the right
things and I was constantly questioning
every single decision that I had and I
think kind of by stepping away from it
for a little bit it kind of made me
realize what my next goals were and what
my passions were because when I won that
all-around gold medal it was the most
amazing feeling in that moment but then
all of a sudden it was so scary because
that was the only goal in the only dream
that I had for all those years and when
you achieve it and accomplish it at 18
you're kind of like not what what do I
do with my life
Who am I like if I'm not a gymnast
anymore like are people even going to
love me are people going to support me
do they are they even gonna care and so
I think by moving to New York it just
kind of made me realize who I was and
what my passions were I'm so glad that
you brought that up are people gonna
love me if I'm not winning if I'm not a
gymnast and the fall like honestly when
I was researching your story I was like
oh my god the accolades what you've done
it's so amazing and then my jaw hit the
floor cuz first I read about it and I
was like wow I gotta go look this up and
say you have to watch 100% and I
literally have the chills right now like
the lat and you don't miss a beat like
it's unreal it literally felt like 10
minutes because like so much was happen
but then it also felt like a second and
so I remember then letting go and
realizing that I wasn't gonna grab the
bar and then all of a sudden the next
thought was owl falling flat and like
those mats are not so often because
they're brand new and so I definitely
think I had a mild concussion but then I
remember you know the dad just
immediately came out and my dad he
wasn't my coach anymore and for him I
know he definitely felt part of it was
his fault for not like coming in and
catching me but again everything
happened so quickly and if you catch
there if you touch someone and they
still grab the bar that's a point
deduction so it's the same as a fall and
so in his mind he's thinking like is she
gonna catch it is she not he's kind of
going like this back and forth motion
and then all of a sudden I'm like on the
floor and the first thing that you're
taught in gymnastics actually is how to
fall and so I knew that I just had to
stay completely flat and like fall like
harsh like that but and so then I I
remember doing the leg pop and then kind
of feeling my neck a little stiff and he
said are you okay and I said yes and he
told me that I didn't have to finish
that and I said no you told me ever
since I was a little girl that no matter
what happens I always have to finish get
back up and finish what I've started and
of course he knew that but I think that
dad and him just wanted me to get off
the bar and be safe because I think he
had this moment of fear of oh my gosh we
made it this far without really any
serious injury and that could have been
bad and so I told him that I promise
that you know I was fine I just really
wanted to finish this routine and I
remember just not even thinking in my
routine which was kind of scary because
you have to be thinking of your skills
and the next thing I know I had landed
on my feet on my dismount and I think in
the moment of falling when I was laying
there I knew that my chances and my
dreams of making a second Olympic team
were completely over and so this was
just kind of for me I didn't want to end
my competitive career on my face
basically and when I landed on my feet
and I saluted and I just like so many
different emotions kind of were in my
mind and as soon as I started walking I
hopped off the podium my
kind of helped me down and I started
looking around and one by one like
people started kind of coming to their
feet when I was kind of like oh I maybe
I was like the last person the rotation
they're like going to get like a drink
or use the restroom or something and I'm
just like I put my head down and I'm
walking I started taking my grips off
and then I just like I kind of look
around the entire arena and all of a
sudden everybody is on their feet and I
remember being so confused because it
was the worst routine of my entire
career I had never once had a standing
ovation not when I won the gold medal
not like not once and Here I am for the
worst routine of my entire career 20,000
people are standing on their feet and so
I I got obviously super emotional but I
was still very upset about my
performance about the fact that I wasn't
gonna make the second Olympic team I was
so embarrassed I was so ashamed because
going into the Olympic Trials as the
reigning Olympic all-around champion
there's a lot of expectation on you you
know you are the best in the world
you're supposed to be the best in the
world and for so many years I always
thought that people were only going to
love and support me if I was the best if
I won that gold medal and so I think I
had this immediate emotion of fear that
I wasn't going to be loved anymore or
that I wasn't going to be supported and
that I was a failure and it really
didn't process I think until a little
bit of time later where I realized that
that truly became the defining moment in
my career
because for so many years it was all
about trying to be the best and trying
to win a gold medal and the moment that
I had there made me realize that there's
so much more to life than being the best
there's so much more to life than
winning a gold medal but it's about the
journey it's about finding something
that you're so passionate about that you
love so much and and and being on that
journey with the people that truly love
you and that support you and care for
you and we're all going to have those
moments in our lives where we fall
literally or figuratively and I think
for me it became this moment of just
being able to relate to so many people
because by winning an Olympic all-around
gold medal like not many people I
realize not many people can say that
they've done that and again that's
something I'm proud of but it's not
something that I can sit down and have a
conversation with someone about because
they don't know what that's like but
having that moment where you're falling
down and you feel like a failure I I
felt like such a failure and I remember
then realizing like I'm not a failure I
did my best you know mistakes happen to
everybody
things happen in people's lives whether
it's in a relationship whether it's in a
job or in your career whatever it is
we're all going to have those moments
and so learning to accept that it's okay
you know we're going to have those
moments and what I could learn from that
moment really kind of helped me be able
to move on and know like I will be okay
I will be able to move on and I will be
able to be somebody else other than just
nasty-looking the Olympic gymnast that
part of your story to me honestly is
like one of the most amazing beautiful
inspiring like moments because of how
you react and there was look I get it I
totally hear you and you don't whitewash
it and I love that and when you talk
about it you talk about how embarrassed
you were and then you felt like a
failure and and that's why that part of
the story is so incredible because I
really believe the only thing in life
that matters is what you think about
yourself when you're by yourself and
what does that quiet voice have to say
and look it's it's just patently obvious
that mistakes are gonna be made that you
do something enough you're you're going
to fail at it but then how you react
that's you right that's now chance has
been taken out of the equation and now
we're just talking about what's your
character and your character in that
moment was so clear because there's
nothing left to gain other than to say I
live by a code in the code is that you
finish what you start to be who you want
it to be in that moment you have to be
willing to sit in the embarrassment
because you could have bolted right and
nobody would have thought twice about it
least of all your father but to be the
person you want to be you had to stay in
that moment you had to sit in the
embarrassment and finish the routine in
it you earn everyone's respect it's like
this crazy moment out of a movie the
fact you get the standing ovation right
it's just it's incredible and like I'm
as awed by your reaction as I am by your
raw talent I mean that's it's a pretty
cool moment thank you yeah no I like
what you said too about you know your
feelings about when no one else is in
the room or you know because I feel like
we're so influenced by so many people's
thoughts and perceptions about you
especially just in the world that we
live in with social media and the access
being right there everything's so
immediate and I think at the end of the
day I think if you can go to sleep at
night knowing that you're proud of
yourself not necessarily for your
accomplishments or how many gold medals
you've won but about the kind of person
that you are then I think that's all
that matters
what advice do you have for young girls
regardless of what they want to do like
what advice do you have for them about
the paths Iturbide for them because not
everybody is gonna want greatness but
some do and I think some want it and are
embarrassed to be that ambitious
especially because there are a woman in
there told they're not supposed to be
well I don't know I feel like that's
always been my mission to empower young
women to do what they want to do and not
necessarily to do what society is
telling them to do or you know what your
parents did or you know any of these
things but to do what you want to do and
and that's in your hands it's in your
control and and I think that it's so
important
to kind of share that you know and
obviously with young girls and young
women but even young boys you know it's
it's it's really everybody out there
that has a dream and that has a goal and
I think that is so important to be able
to say like this is my dream and not be
ashamed by it
because whatever your dream is like
that's your dream don't let somebody
else take that away from you by telling
you that you're not good enough or
you're not gonna you're never gonna be
able to do this don't even waste your
time on that I've gotten told all of the
above and so it's like don't let someone
take that away from you if you have this
burning desire inside of you and you'll
know what that feels like if you have it
then you just need to go full force and
kind of block out all the negativity and
everything else that is around you
telling you that you can't do it you had
such an incredible path to execution
from there are Olympic Games and they
have rules and so there was something
really clear to aim at what do you tell
kids that buy into what you just said
they've got that burning thing they want
to do something how do you help them
find a path to execution I think the
important thing is to not you know if
you're just starting out in gymnastics
or you're any really any sport you know
don't necessarily set your sights on the
Olympics right now focus on what you're
doing and kind of your path right now
yes the Olympics might be in your future
but that's the future so it's important
to have those long-term goals but at the
same time like how are you going to get
there well you need to do X Y & Z to
kind of even get to possibly you know
competing in Olympic Trials and so I
think it's important to I guess have
these big aspirations and these big
goals and ambitions but also figure out
what it is your goal is right now what
is your goal today what is your goal
this week this month and this year and
then have that long term goal again and
that was something that my dad really
taught me was he was really into you
know the goal setting but also planning
the year out and so he said okay if we
want to be here in November then how do
we get there so he would actually start
at the end and back
tract in terms of you know simple as now
we're gonna do star our skills then
parts then routines then get in
competition shape and and all of these
things so then I knew I could look at my
full year-long schedule and say okay
today this is what I have next week I'm
gonna be starting routines so I should
really focus this week I'm getting my
endurance up or something and so you
know regardless of whether it's a sport
or just life I feel like it's it's
really important to have this
step-by-step process of how am I going
to get to that angle what are some
things your parents taught you about
life huh where do I begin um you know I
mean simple things from you know I'm not
giving up on that bad day because we've
all wanted to say I quit we for so many
years I was told no or I was told I was
too skinny and you know I wouldn't be
strong and so I think the ability to be
able to block out and not in a negative
way of like don't talk to me kind of
thing but in an ability to be able to
respect still respect someone and
respect their opinion but not let it get
inside your mind but I think that's why
I love surrounding myself with people
that I can learn from people that might
be better than me and in different
aspects of life or even a better gymnast
or even a better person whatever it is I
think it's so important to learn from
other people instead of just thinking
that I'm the best or you know I don't
need to learn anymore because I don't
believe in that what do the greatest in
the world have in common when it comes
to how they respond to failure well I
think first of all going back a little
bit I think the greatest in the world
didn't necessarily rely on talent and I
think a lot of people look at some of
the greatest in the world and think like
they're just lucky like yeah I was
probably born with some gymnastics in my
blood like I'm not gonna say that's not
true but that wasn't in
talent was never enough to get me to
where I wanted to go and I knew that and
so I think from failure or from
disappointment
that's where character builds because
it's easy to have good character and be
positive when you're winning a gold
medal it's so easy everybody loves you
everybody wants to talk to you you're on
top of the world but in moments of
failure and moments of defeat and
moments of falling on your face or
losing a match or you know losing a game
whatever it is that's when you truly
need to be your strongest that's where
you build your character and I think
that's why we see from so many of the
greatest athletes in the world even when
they're not on top we still love them
and we still want to support them even
more all right before I ask my last
question working these guys find you
online
Metheny social media Instagram and
Twitter is Nastia Liukin my facebook is
not so gonna wait and my blog and
website is nasty okay now calm awesome
all right last question what's the
impact that you want to have on the
world to me I don't want to be
remembered for winning an Olympic gold
medal
I want to hopefully leave an impact on
the world that empowers and inspires
young women all across the world no
matter the sport they play the country
they live in their political beliefs
their religious beliefs I want them to
know that they can dream bigger and that
nobody can tell you that you can't
achieve those dreams and those goals
everything is within your reach if you
want to do something bad enough you will
find a way and you will get those
results that you want
incredible guys I'm telling you she had
me at think bigger work harder which is
the very opening to her book which you
were definitely gonna want to check out
watch the interview she's done dive into
her world it is absolutely incredible
when somebody has to work that hard
there is just one immutable truth along
the way
they have had to find something that
keeps them going that motivates them
that inspires them to keep driving and
moving forward it is a nearly impossible
puzzle to figure out to take yourself
from reaching up to the bars for the
first time to winning the all-around
gold medal in the Olympics when the
entire world by the way is trying to
beat you at the same time so that kind
of journey to me is just incredible but
to watch to watch how she handled the
feat is one of the most awe-inspiring
things I've ever seen a human do it is
absolutely incredible to know who you
are to the core of your being to have
done as much work on who you are as you
do on what you do to me that is the
marker of somebody who's truly a
champion so that is why I hope you guys
were listening to what she said today
and I hope you would go check out the
other things that she's done she is
beyond extraordinary for that reason if
nothing else and I can't wait to see
what she does next all right if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe and
until next time my friends be legendary
take care everybody thank you so much
for watching and being a part of this
community if you haven't already be sure
to subscribe you're gonna get weekly
videos on building a growth mindset
cultivating grit and unlocking your full
potential